Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as Eminem (; often stylized as EMINƎM), is an American rapper, songwriter, record producer, record executive, film producer, and actor. He is consistently cited as one of the greatest and most influential rappers of all time. In addition to his solo career, Eminem was a member of the hip hop group D12. He is also known for his collaborations with fellow Detroit-based rapper Royce da 5'9"; the two are collectively known as Bad Meets Evil. After his debut album Infinite (1996) and the extended play Slim Shady EP (1997), Eminem signed with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and subsequently achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP, which earned him his first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002), were worldwide successes, with each being certified Diamond by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and both being nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. As a result of being the leading figure in a form of black music, Eminem was subject to comparisons to Elvis Presley at the time. Encore was released in 2004, which faced heavy criticism by fans and critics for its lacklustre quality. Eminem went on hiatus after touring in 2005 partly due to a prescription drug addiction. He released Relapse (2009) and Recovery (2010), with both winning Grammy Awards for Best Rap Album. Recovery was the best-selling album of 2010 worldwide, the second time Eminem had the international best-selling album of the year (after The Eminem Show). Eminem's eighth album, The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013), also won the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album; it expanded his record for the most wins in the category. These were followed by 2017's Revival and 2018's Kamikaze. Eminem starred in the drama film 8 Mile (2002) playing a fictionalized version of himself, which won the Academy Award for Best Original Song for "Lose Yourself", making him the first hip hop artist to ever win the award. Eminem has also established his own channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM Radio. He is the best-selling music artist in the United States in the 2000s. Eminem has had nine number-one albums on the Billboard 200, which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart making him the only artist to achieve this, and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. Early lif. Marshall Bruce Mathers III was born on October 17, 1972 in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson). He is of English, Scottish, German, German Swiss, Polish and Luxembourgian ancestry. His mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with him. Eminem's parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks, playing in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas–Montana border before their separation. Eminem's father, referred to by his middle name Bruce, left the family, moving to California and having two other children: Michael and Sarah. Debbie later had son Nathan "Nate" Kane Samara. During his childhood, Eminem and Debbie shuttled between Michigan and Missouri, rarely staying in one house for more than a year or two and living primarily with family members. In Missouri, they lived in several places, including St. Joseph, Savannah, and Kansas City. 
As a teenager, Eminem wrote letters to his father, which Debbie stated all came back marked "return to sender". Friends and family remember Eminem as a happy child, but "a bit of a loner" who was often bullied. One bully, D'Angelo Bailey, severely injured Eminem's head in an assault; Debbie filed a lawsuit against the school in 1982, which was dismissed the following year because the Macomb County, Michigan judge said the schools were immune from lawsuits. Eminem spent much of his youth in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood. He and Debbie were one of three white households on their block, and Eminem was beaten by black youths several times. As a child he was interested in storytelling, aspiring to be a comic-book artist before discovering hip hop. When her son became famous, Debbie was unimpressed by suggestions that she was a less-than-ideal mother, contending that she sheltered him and was responsible for his success. In 1987, Debbie allowed runaway Kimberly Anne "Kim" Scott to stay at their home; several years later, Eminem began an on-and-off relationship with Scott. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes. 
1988–1997: Early career, Infinite and family struggle. In 1988, he went by the stage name MC Double M and formed his first group New Jacks with DJ Butter Fingers. In 1989, they later joined Bassmint Productions who later changed their name to Soul Intent in 1992 with rapper Proof and other childhood friends. They released a self-titled EP in 1995 featuring Proof. Eminem also made his first music video appearance in 1992 in a song titled, "Do-Da-Dippity", by Champtown. Later in 1996, Eminem and Proof teamed up with four other rappers to form The Dirty Dozen (D12), who released their first album Devil's Night in 2001. Eminem had his first run-in with the law at age 20, when he was arrested for his involvement in a drive-by shooting with a paintball gun. The case was dismissed when the victim did not appear in court. Eminem was soon signed to Jeff and Mark Bass's FBT Productions, and recorded his debut album Infinite for their independent Web Entertainment label. The album was a commercial failure upon its release in 1996. One lyrical subject of Infinite was his struggle to raise his newborn daughter, Hailie Jade Scott Mathers, on little money. During this period, Eminem's rhyming style, primarily inspired by rappers Nas, Esham and AZ, lacked the comically violent slant for which he later became known. After he was evicted from his home, Eminem went to Los Angeles to compete in the 1997 Rap Olympics, an annual, nationwide battle rap competition. Iovine played the tape for record producer Dr. Dre, founder of Aftermath Entertainment and founding member of hip-hop group N. The Slim Shady LP has been certified quadruple platinum by the RIAA. 
2000–2002: The Marshall Mathers LP, lyrical conflicts and The Eminem Sho. The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000. It sold 1. 76 million copies in its first week, breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg's Doggystyle for fastest-selling hip hop album and Britney Spears' . . . Baby One More Time for fastest-selling solo album. The first single from the album, "The Real Slim Shady", was a success despite controversies about Eminem's insults and dubious claims about celebrities (for example, that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Fred Durst and Carson Daly). The Eminem Show was released in May 2002. On December 8, 2003, the United States Secret Service said that it was "looking into" allegations that Eminem had threatened the President of the United States. The song criticized President George W. In September 2007, Eminem called New York radio station WQHT during an interview with 50 Cent, saying that he was "in limbo" and "debating" about when (or if) he would release another album: "I'm always working – I'm always in the studio. It feels good right now, the energy of the label. For a while, I didn't want to go back to the studio . . . I went through some personal things. I'm coming out of those personal things [and] it feels good. . 
2008–2009: Comeback, Relapse and Relapse: Refil. Eminem appeared on his Shade 45 Sirius channel in September 2008, saying: "Right now I'm kinda just concentrating on my own stuff, for right now and just banging out tracks and producing a lot of stuff. You know, the more I keep producing the better it seems like I get 'cause I just start knowing stuff. " Interscope confirmed that a new album would be released in spring 2009. In December 2008, Eminem provided more details about the album, entitled Relapse: "Me and Dre are back in the lab like the old days, man. It sold more than five million copies worldwide. Its standard version had 16 tracks, and the deluxe version included a second disc with five additional tracks. He was the first artist since the Beatles to have four singles in the top 20 of the Billboard Hot 100. The first single from the soundtrack called 'Phenomenal' was released on June 2, 2015. Eminem was the first interview of Zane Lowe in Beats 1. Later in November, the first single "Walk on Water" was released, which featured Beyoncé. On November 28, Dr. Dre posted a video confirming the album's release date as December 15, 2017. On January 5, 2018, the second single "River" was released, which featured Ed Sheeran. The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics. In the book, other MCs also praise aspects of his rapping technique; varied, humorous subject matter, connecting with his audience, carrying a concept over a series of albums, complex rhyme schemes, bending words so they rhyme, multisyllabic rhymes, many rhymes to a bar, complex rhythms, clear enunciation and the use of melody and syncopation. In this persona, his songs are violent and dark, with a comic twist. They don't know what's in my head. The accomplished trumpeter Nicholas Payton has called Eminem "the Bix Beiderbecke of hip hop". He was married twice to Kimberly Anne "Kim" Scott. Their daughter Hailie was born on December 25, 1995. He also has custody of Dawn's daughter Alaina and Whitney, Kim's daughter from another relationship. In early 2010, Eminem denied tabloid reports that he and Kim had renewed their romantic relationship; however, in the same statement his representative also confirmed that they now maintain a friendly relationship. He had legal custody of his younger half-brother Nathan. In his 2014 song "Headlights", Eminem apologized to, and reiterated his love for his mother. 
Legal issues and controversie. In 1999, Eminem's mother sued him for $10 million claiming he was slandering her on The Slim Shady LP.  Ligation concluded in 2001 resulting in an award of $1,600 for her damages. On June 3, 2000, Eminem was arrested during an altercation with Douglas Dail at a car-audio store in Royal Oak, Michigan, when he pulled out an unloaded gun and pointed it at the ground. The next day, in Warren, Michigan, he was arrested again for assaulting John Guerra in the parking lot of the Hot Rock Café when he saw him kissing his wife. Loussier demanded that sales of The Marshall Mathers LP be halted, and any remaining copies destroyed. The case was later settled out of court. President George W. Aftermath Records that F. In March 2011, the Supreme Court of the United States declined to hear the case. Eminem has spoken publicly about his addiction to prescription drugs, including Vicodin, Ambien and Valium. According to friend and fellow D12 member Proof, Eminem first straightened out in 2002. During the production of 8 Mile, Eminem, working 16 hours a day, developed insomnia. An associate gave him an Ambien tablet which "knocked [him] out", encouraging him to obtain a prescription. This was Eminem's first experience of drug addiction, which would affect him for several years. Near the end of production on Encore, he would "just go into the studio and goof off [with] a pocketful of pills". Elton John was a mentor during this period, calling Eminem once a week to check on him. In the book My Son Marshall, My Son Eminem, his mother stated that he has struggled with bipolar disorder throughout his life. She said it worsened after his ex-wife Kim Mathers gave birth to their daughter Hailie. On April 20, 2019, Eminem announced he was 11 years sober. 
Allegations of homophobi. Some of Eminem's lyrics have been considered homophobic, and an Australian politician attempted to ban him from the country. During a 60 Minutes interview, journalist Anderson Cooper explored the issue. Cooper: Some of the lyrics, like, you know, in the song "Criminal" you say "My words are like a dagger with a jagged edge, That'll stab you in the head, whether you're a fag or lez, Or the homosex, hermaph or a trans-a-vest, Pants or dress—hate fags? You know what I mean? Eminem has over ten billion views of his music videos on his YouTube Vevo page. Eminem won the 2002 Academy Award for Best Original Song for his song Lose Yourself, co-written with Jeff Bass and Luis Resto. Eminem had a cameo appearance as himself in the 2014 film The Interview. During an interview with the main character, Dave Skylark (James Franco), Eminem satirically comes out as homosexual. 
Books and Memoir. The Slim Shady LP (1999. The Marshall Mathers LP (2000. Relapse (2009. The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013. Further readin. Eminem and Rap, Poetry, Race: Essays. McFarland. Eminem on IMDb. 
