Lionel Andrés Messi Cuccittini (Spanish pronunciation: [ljoˈnel anˈdɾez ˈmesi] (listen); born 24 June 1987) is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a forward and captains both Spanish club Barcelona and the Argentina national team. Often considered the best player in the world and widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time, Messi has won a record six Ballon d'Or awards, and a record six European Golden Shoes. He has scored over 700 senior career goals for club and country. Born and raised in central Argentina, Messi was diagnosed with a growth hormone deficiency as a child. At age 13, he relocated to Spain to join Barcelona, who agreed to pay for his medical treatment. His first uninterrupted season was 2008–09, during which he helped Barcelona achieve the first treble in Spanish football. Lionel Andrés Messi was born on 24 June 1987 in Rosario, the third of the four children of Jorge Messi, a steel factory manager, and his wife Celia Cuccittini, who worked in a magnet manufacturing workshop. On his father's side, he is of Italian and Spanish descent, the great-grandson of immigrants from the northcentral Adriatic Marche region of Italy and Catalonia, and on his mother's side, he has primarily Italian ancestry. Growing up in a tight-knit, football-loving family, "Leo" developed a passion for the sport from an early age, playing constantly with his older brothers, Rodrigo and Matías, and his cousins, Maximiliano and Emanuel Biancucchi, both of whom became professional footballers. At the age of four he joined local club Grandoli, where he was coached by his father, though his earliest influence as a player came from his maternal grandmother, Celia, who accompanied him to training and matches. He played five games with the B team that season but did not score. Upon the latter's departure, Messi was given the number 10 shirt. He returned as a false nine during the final on 27 May in Rome against Manchester United. Towards the end of the season, Barcelona played four Clásicos in the span of 18 days. At the close of the year, Messi had scored a record 91 goals in all competitions for Barcelona and Argentina. His game-winning goal in stoppage time was his 500th for Barcelona. Back home, however, Messi was the subject of harsher judgement. Family and relationship. Facing the judge, he said, "I just played football. UEFA Champions League: 2005–06, 2008–09, 2010–11, 2014–1. Lionel Messi at Soccerbase. 
