Canada is a country in the northern part of North America. Its ten provinces and three territories extend from the Atlantic to the Pacific and northward into the Arctic Ocean, covering 9. 98 million square kilometres (3. 85 million square miles), making it the world's second-largest country by total area. Its southern border with the United States, stretching some 8,891 kilometres (5,525 mi), is the world's longest bi-national land border. Canada's capital is Ottawa, and its three largest metropolitan areas are Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver. As a whole, Canada is sparsely populated, the majority of its land area being dominated by forest and tundra. Various Indigenous peoples have inhabited what is now Canada for thousands of years before European colonization. This began an accretion of provinces and territories and a process of increasing autonomy from the United Kingdom. The characteristics of Canadian Indigenous societies included permanent settlements, agriculture, complex societal hierarchies, and trading networks. Some of these cultures had collapsed by the time European explorers arrived in the late 15th and early 16th centuries and have only been discovered through archeological investigations. The early 16th century saw European mariners with navigational techniques pioneered by the Basque and Portuguese establish seasonal whaling and fishing outposts along the Atlantic coast. Canada sent troops to Afghanistan in 2001, but declined to join the U. S. -led invasion of Iraq in 2003. In 2011, Canadian forces participated in the NATO-led intervention into the Libyan Civil War, and also became involved in battling the Islamic State insurgency in Iraq in the mid-2010s. 
Geography and climat. Canada occupies much of the continent of North America, sharing land borders with the contiguous United States to the south, and the U. Canada stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west; to the north lies the Arctic Ocean. By total area (including its waters), Canada is the second-largest country in the world, after Russia. As this was the first UN peacekeeping mission, Pearson is often credited as the inventor of the concept. A change to the division of powers between the federal government and the provinces requires a constitutional amendment, whereas a similar change affecting the territories can be performed unilaterally by the Parliament of Canada or government. 
Econom. Casson became part of the Group in 1926. The Canadian music industry is the sixth-largest in the world producing internationally renowned composers, musicians and ensembles. Canada shares several major professional sports leagues with the United States. Topics by provinces and territorie. 
Note. Canada at Curli. Official website of the Governor General of Canad. 
